---
title: "AGORA Trading Guide v1.1"
subtitle: "A guide to participating in CRUCIAL prediction markets on the AGORA platform; API update"
summary: "Guide to using CRUCIAL's AGORA prediction market platform; API update"
authors: ["Mark Roulston"]
tags: ["Mark Roulston"]
categories: []
date: 2025-10-02T00:00:01Z
lastmod: 2025-10-02T00:00:01Z
featured: true
draft: false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder.
# Focal points: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight.
image:
  caption: ""
  focal_point: ""
  preview_only: false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects: []

url_pdf: /AGORA/Trading_Guide_v1.1.pdf

---

> This October 2nd 2025 version v1.1 of the trading guide includes documentation of the newly introduced AGORA Application Programming Interface (API), for programmatic access to prices as well as for executing trades. 

CRUCIAL is an initiative to use prediction markets, with expert participants, to elicit and 
aggregate the diverse expertise and knowledge of the participants and produce unified 
probability forecasts of climate-related risks. These forecasts can evolve as new 
information becomes available to participants. 

Prediction markets are similar to financial markets, or recreational gambling, but they are 
not intended to transfer the ownership of assets of risks, or to provide entertainment, but 
are specifically designed to synthesize and summarize information from many sources.
 
Participants in CRUCIAL markets do not have to pay to take part or stake money. Instead, 
they are provided with credits with which to trade contracts that pay out more credits if 
an outcome associated with the contract occurs. The credits that participants 
accumulate can, however, be converted into cash rewards using funds provided by 
market sponsors. Through this mechanism it is hoped that prediction markets can 
become an alternative way of funding climate forecasting research in a performance-driven way.

[This document](/AGORA/Trading_Guide_v1.1.pdf) is intended to provide guidance on how to trade in CRUCIAL’s markets. If 
you are participating, then it is assumed you have relevant domain expertise in 
forecasting climate-related risks. The aim of this guide is to help you translate your own 
knowledge and expertise into effective trading strategies. By doing this you will also 
contribute to improving the collective predictions generated by the markets.

CRUCIAL uses a prediction market platform called AGORA that was specifically designed 
for climate-related applications. 



<br>
